Global Thermonuclear War

Design principles:
Every choice should "mean something", e.g. be active & intentional (change "Examine Sioxsie" to "Stare at Siouxsie"?) or reveal useful detail
Extra things to play with (at least 3 vignettes should be highly interactive/combinatoric)

Ideas for scoring axes:
Cowardice <--> Bravery   (or self-loathing <--> self-esteem?)
Script Kiddie <--> L33T
Social engineering?
Black Hat <--> White Hat
Story Mover <--> Compulsive Examiner (# of useless clicks)


Synopsis.

William lives in Schoolville with an overbearing compsci father and a Stepford mother.
Scorned by boys, pitied by girls, his high school days are tormented.
A secret black-hat genius is his only superpower.

William's only friends are:
 a fashion-obsessed physics nerd, Peter;
 a literary bohemian German girl, Kaaren;
 a conscientious objector, David.

This is an alternate reality close to ours, with the Cold War slightly escalated,
so the West is a little more repressive and USSR-like (with hints of "Paranoia").

Schools teach advanced weaponry. Teachers are on strike, protesting
military recruitment on campus. Pacifists are not allowed on TV...

Although most people don't know it, this militarization began when the
NSA, recruiting Nazi scientists, took electrode implantation in humans
to wildly unethical and highly sophisticated extremes. Pregnant
mothers are treated with thalidomide to induce phocomelia and SSRIs
(NB:anachronism) to induce autism. The babies are placed on life
support and implanted with electrodes. The results are "brainframes";
essentially, captive slaves, who on the internet are half-AI gods. The
brutal treatment allows the technologists to deny the humanity of the
subjects.

Soviet and Chinese spies copied the technology, and now the
"brainframes" live in uneasy awareness of each others' presence, as
well as possible alien brains that only they can sense and which they
think might REALLY be fucking with them.

[CLICHE?]
It turns out brainframes, unethical hybrid AIs reared by the military,
are homicidal killing machines. (Who knew?) They are insanely jealous
of each others' existence, and instantly murder any other newly-grown
brainframes who are connected to the same network.

William gets caught up in this by eavesdropping on a teacher who has
been recruited by the US brainframe as one of its local spies.


[ALTERNATE?]
Brainframes do not live very long
A relatively old brainframe "Kinlock" becomes your mentor


Tattoos and body modifications are advanced in this world.
Historically, this builds on a craze for body-modification traceable to alien contact with Siaosi, King Taufa'ahau I of Tonga, in latter half of 18th century.
Siaosi was accorded a seat in the British House of Commons, and tatau (tattooing) is a little more respectable in this reality.
None of this should show through except very obliquely?

Bioluminescent tattoos.

Grease




The plot is as follows.

SCENE 1: MEET WILLIAM
1a. POV: William
Breaks into the school library and installs a keystroke capture.
Decides to tell Kaaren or Peter.

1b. POV: Kaaren or Peter
Talks over William's attempts to brag. Tells him about a new nightclub where hackers are cool.


SCENE 2: WILLIAM'S HOUSE
2a. POV: William
Home. Meet the parents. A Rube Goldberg computer in the bedroom:
clunky fingerprint scanner, one-time pad, voice synth, acoustic coupler, etc.
("AdamCad Machine": inspect plaque to get a quote from AdamCad Inc. about infernal machines?)
(Acoustic coupler will be useful later.)

2b. POV: William (on the computer)
Wardialling results: 
Hack into a game company. Play global thermonuclear war AND/OR alien invasion games.
("Narrow that phalanx!" - Martin Amis space invaders? "his most important book")
Can't get into the Oak Ridge game company. Greeted with a mysterious high-pitched tone.


SCENE 3: BACK AT SCHOOL
3a. POV: William
Back at school, the next day. Get back into library. Retrieve keylogging results.
Go to class.

3b. POV: William
Weapons class. (First major hint of alternate universe, apart from minor clues like anachronisms.)
Teacher is describing ceramic pistols.
Clearer signals that Kaaren/Peter friendship could develop into more.
Opportunity to declare sexuality and switch primary focus from Kaaren to Peter (or vice versa).
Some funny looks from teachers.

3b. POV: William
Hanging out with a group of peers.
Awkward attempts at social interaction:
embarrass yourself by speaking up for gay rights, algebra, foreigners, pacifists, etc.
(These conversational opportunities should be presented in a random sequence,
terminating in social ostracization as soon as you speak up,
so that "lawn-mowering" them means deliberately choosing the most craven, least controversial option.)

3c. POV: Kaaren or Peter
(conditional on you not being totally craven)
Decides whether or not they're interested in William.


SCENE 4: CONTACT WITH THE UNDERWORLD
4a. POV: William
Leaving the school, notices black van trailing him.
Decides whether to go to nightclub or hacker meetup.

4b. POV: William
Nightclub. Offered choice of red/blue pill.
Can decline, but it's difficult.

4c. POV: William
Hacker meetup.
Can go dumpster diving or call PBXs.

4d. POV: William
On the way home from hacker meetup/nightclub.

4e. POV: FBI agent (female)
Guarding William in the van.
Some exposition of the main conspiracy.
If William ate the pill, he is acting funny.


SCENE 5: AT NORAD
5. POV: William
Council of ten. Black robes. Oak-paneled walls.
"FBI agent" turns out to be only woman on the council.
One woman, nine men. Men constantly overruling her, accusing her of
harassment, telling her to calm down.
Your choices formulate an elaborate escape plan, against backdrop of expositionary dialogue
among the council.
Female council member can help you escape, or you break out of the infirmary and join a
tour group.


SCENE 6: ON THE LAM
6. POV: William

SCENE 7: THE PROFESSOR'S ISLAND
Rather than professor Falken, we find a 45-year-old old caretaker and his 9-year-old son.
(The mother fell prey to the pterodactyls that guard the island.)
The caretaker tends to the minimal needs of Kinloch, a 


SCENE 8: BACK AT NORAD






Notes.

Characters.
Player character (m or f), a suburban misfit

Companion hackers:
Hacker Zachariah (m), black teen from Bed Stuy NY
Gina Mackintyre (f), stoner, UK hacker in search of UFOs
Adie Lamer (m), Lisp programmer, serial turncoat
Jules de Bourcier (m), activist, transparency advocate, philanderer

Main antagonists:
Dianne Kill (f), tech-savvy FBI agent in a world of dinosaurs
Hiroshi Miyamura (m), Japanese-American physicist, biologist, roller-skater, hacker-hunter
Stephen Eagle-Hawke (m), British computer scientist, classified, faked own death

Minor characters:
Norbert Cuthridge (m), autistic savant, university lab technician, hacker sympathizer
Sarah Dale (f), game developer, hacker sympathizer
School receptionist, minor antagonist


Scene 1. (Hacker)

Player is trying to impress a girl by hacking into the school
computer.

Several locations in the school can be visited, introducing some key
characters (sadistic PE teacher, school receptionist, geeky love
interest, gay hacker friend)

Library timing puzzle: period-2 and period-3 cyclers must be in sync,
then you can get into the computer room
- librarian putting books away
- teacher patrolling
- maybe you also have to flip a couple of selectables

Extra things to play with (at least 3 vignettes should be highly interactive/combinatoric)



Scene 1b. (Love interest)

Hacker tries to tell you about his exploits/problems.
You are far more interested in telling him about high school social dynamics.
(Latest outrageous pranks of the Air Corps, daring pacifism of friend David - cf Donny the Punk...)
However when you see he is agitated, you give him Morph33n's number.


Scene 3. (Hacker)
Nightclub.


Scene 4. (Hacker)
University.

Ends with a choice: "Your thoughts turn to..."

Scene 5a. (Gay love interest)
Scene 5b. (Geeky love interest)
These scenes open up the possibility of alternate companions.

Scene 6. (Hacker)
Choice of companion

On the road, with your companion, pursued by the FBI.
Las Vegas casino, DefCon. Bouncer catches you eyeing slot machine.
Piles of coke in a drab room at Circus Circus with hacks scrawled over the wallpaper
Casino hallways seem grand the first time around, lame the second

Smoking weed on the road with Mitnick and Lamo

A whistle in a cereal packet that triggers nuclear war

BUSTED


(Lame Wargames Ending)
Captured, taken to NORAD: you learn that the computer is self-aware,
has been taught emotion, etc.
Escape from capture.

Find the peacenik Professor (he is very like John Lennon).
Return to NORAD.

Defeat the computer by
- making it fall in love with you
- reasoning it into futility
- asking a serious of mindblowing philosophical questions
- smashing it up with an axe





Vignettes.

Inspirations:
Wargames movie, novel
WhizKids TV series
My own childhood
Rudy Rucker's transrealism

Hack into school computer, (nearly) get caught
Write a computer game. Forget the subroutine for the final explosion
Have an incredibly elaborate homemade computer in your bedroom that is Rube Goldberg-examinable
 (you can pick one piece to take with you; each one unlocks a route into a minigame)

Wardial ActorVizion trying to get games
Call Kingston polytechnic pursuing an illicit money transfer
Make reservations for Paris with a travel agent

Las Vegas casino, DefCon. Bouncer catches you eyeing slot machine
Piles of coke in a hotel room with hacks scrawled over the wallpaper
A whistle in a cereal packet that triggers nuclear war
Go on the run, chased by the FBI, get busted
Smoking weed on the road with Mitnick and Lamo
Hotel room, dropped cellphone calls, Shimomura uses that to trace you
Trying to sell secrets to the Stasi

Stay up all night with a bunch of nerdy teen hackers on caffeine pills. Hack PBX's, join party lines.
Go dumpster diving. Nearly get caught by police. Then get savage beating from local casuals

Use an experimental new glasses interface that feels like something from Neuromancer, hack in 3D VR, Lawnmower man, etc
 (turns out to be a way to sell advertising)

"Take the red pill or the blue pill" but they both turn out to be duds - $20 ripoff

Prevent a thermonuclear war by hacking into Dr Strangelove's PC
Eavesdropping on conversations between heads of state
The computer that thinks, and can be reasoned into knowledge of futility (and Marvin-the-paranoid-android depression)
Stumbling on the lab where they made Stuxnet - "Holy crap, is that a Kray Twin?" (c.f. Cray 2 in WG)
Escaping from the medical lab by tricking the electronic door lock
Pretending to be part of a tour group

Hack into a DNA synthesizer, poison a corporate defector (New Rose Hotel)
Hack into a hotel fax machine (Johnny Mnemonic)
Masquerade as a corporate email (Neuromancer)
Deal with shadowy godlike AIs on the internet (Neuromancer sequels)

Write a virus for the Russian mob
Blow up a Soviet oil pipeline with a logic bomb
Reverse engineer Stuxnet, get kidnapped by the CIA, MEK, Mossad
Hack the Pentagon, find out that there really are UFOs
Write the first ever internet worm. Set the parameters way too high (not very interactive...)
Dial it in on a payphone like Shockwave Rider?


Side vignettes.
Comedy hookups
Comedy fights
Hacks, exploits of various kinds
Pranks
Drug deals, transexual nightclubs, raves, general underworld vibes
